Welcome, guys and girls, to this lecture.
In this lecture, we are going to learn different ways to spin up against cluster.
So on the left, this is you, the almighty user, and on the right is our x cluster.
So let's see which ways we can spin up this cluster.
So there's always a WAC console.
You can log into it with console and spin up a cluster.
You can always code cloud formation and run it as a cloud formation template which will spin up like
s cluster.
Next option is CLI.
So using CLI commands you can spin up a gas cluster and do all kinds of stuff and the number four is
exit alkali.
So I'm going to go through this thing is if you want to spin up a gas cluster from console or SLI or
cloud formation, you actually have to do a lot of stuff because certain scenarios, some subnets need
to be private.
Some new routing rules needs to be set.
In some cases, a new VPC needs to be created.
So that is a lot of stuff.
But the X CTL is a CLI tool.
It's the open source tool where you can give one command and it will do all the necessary steps in the
background and spin up your cluster.
So we have separate lectures and demos on the CTL method, and this is the preferred method of spinning
up X cluster.
So now that we know this four different ways to spin up the cluster, let's talk about where from you
are going to run this.
Right, so it is console like we know you can go in the console but to run cloud formation the NWC like
still Sealy you need some kind of terminal, right?
So what are the different ways you can do that?
So the first option is always your local laptop or desktop or Mac or whatever machine you use.
You can use press credentials, the secret key and the secret access key run and configure command and
then you can spin up whatever you want from your local PC.
Second is cloud nine.
So instead of using your local laptop, you can spin up a cloud nine instance and then use the terminal
for that to run all the commands.
Either you can still do SLI or even you can write the cloud formation and summit from cloud nine.
You can always pin up a Amazon AC two and then switch into the AC to go to the terminal and then run
the CLI commands.
So again, for this course, I'm going to show you guys and girls that mix up all three methods and
then you can pick and choose whichever one you prefer.
So there's one more way to spin up, which is quite important.
So that is DevOps tools, right?
Because in actual a production environment you won't have access to any terminal or even the console.
So you really cannot go to console and submit cloud formation or go to console and spin up because directly.
So you need to automate this whole process.
So using DevOps tools like Jenkins or Code Pipeline, you can automate this cloud formation or SQL,
or you can still see a light and spin up ICS.
So I highly recommend this because I strongly believe like this, this knowledge is what separates a
pen and paper architect with an actual hands on architect, because in interview, if are giving interview
in a real world enterprise, they will always ask you about how are you going to automate, creating,
maintaining, updating your guest cluster because you cannot just log into console and do all that stuff.
So I have a separate chapter on this in this course.
So we are definitely going to go over it in detail.
All right.
With that being said, let's jump into the next lecture.
I'll see you guys and girls in the next lecture by.